# Execution Log SDK
The BuildXL build engine generates massive amounts of diagnostics data during the build and this data can be written to a BuildXL Execution Log. Thereafter, the data in the execution log can be used to gain insights into the build's internal structure and workings.

The BuildXL Execution Log is a binary file that stores the build execution data in a highly optimized disk space-efficient format. However, extracting data from the execution log directly requires low level BuildXL build engine knowledge.

The Execution Log SDK simplifies access to the execution data contained in the execution log. The SDK is a .NET assembly written in C# and it uses other BuildXL binaries to load data from the execution log. The SDK converts the execution log data into a set of dictionaries and collections that can be accessed from .NET compatible languages like C# or PowerShell.

The Execution Log SDK was designed to enable easy access to execution log data. Loading an execution log requires a single method call that loads all the data and populates dictionaries that can be used to query the data. The data is organized in the dictionaries in a way that makes it easy for devs to write queries against the data. The SDK also takes care of many time consuming and complicated tasks like generating critical paths or filtering the build graph, further simplifying query complexity.

Preprocessing the execution log data at load time increases load times and higher memory usage. The amount of data stored in BuildXL execution logs for some larger builds can reach well into the GB, or even tens of GB range. Since the goal of the SDK is to allow easy querying, sorting and filtering of the data, all the data from the execution log is kept in memory. In addition, larger builds include a larger build graph that can contain tens of thousands of pips that access hundreds of thousands of files. All this information is loaded and cataloged into dictionaries - a process that can take some time to finish. The SDK offers load options that can reduce the amount of data processed at load time. By only loading the desired data, load times and memory usage can be reduced significantly.

## The BuildXL Execution Log
The BuildXL Execution Log is generated by the BuildXL build engine in the same folder as other BuildXL logs. It consists of two parts: one file with the extension XLG (i.e. BuildXL.1.xlg or BuildXL.xlg) and one folder in the same directory as the XLG file with the same as the name of the XLG file, but without the extension.

The XLG file contains various events that have been captured during the build. These events  include:

Event Type | Description
--- | ---
ExtraEventDataReported | Reports various build parameters.
FileArtifactContentDecided | Reports the size and the content hash of the files that have been accessed during the build
DirectoryMembershipHashed | Reports the list of files that were present in various directories that the build enumerated and the hash value that was generated based on the content of the files.
    ObservedInputs | Reports files that the build accessed where those files were not explicitly declared as a dependency.
PipExecutionPerformance | Reports various pip execution performance metrics.
ProcessExecutionMonitoringReported | Reports performance data for all processes launched during the build, including process arguments and reported file accesses.

* The execution log folder contains:
    * Pip data extracted from BuildXL spec files
    * Build graph
    * String table and path table with all strings/paths referenced by the build

## How to generate BuildXL Execution Logs
There are several BuildXL command line arguments that control what is captured in the execution log and your build configuration may have one or more of these defaulted on.

BuildXL command line argument | Description
--- | ---
/logExecution | Instructs BuildXL to generate an execution log with the build.
/logProcesses | Instructs BuildXL to include process details for all processes launched during the build. This option is required when [ExecutionLogLoadOptions::LoadProcessMonitoringData](#LoadProcessMonitoringData) is set.
/logProcessData | Instructs BuildXL to include execution timings and IO operation details for all processes launched during the build. This option requires /logProcesses to also be specified.
/logObservedFileAccesses | Instructs BuildXL to include all file accesses reported during the build. This option is  required when [ExecutionLogLoadOptions::LoadReportedFileAccesses](#LoadReportedFileAccesses) is set.

Specifying /logProcesses and especially /logObservedFileAccesses adds significant overhead to the build. /logProcesses logs the process Id and command line arguments for every process launched during the build. /logObservedFileAccesses logs every attempted file access and for larger builds there will be tens of millions of file accesses to log. When these options are enabled the size of the execution log will grow considerably and the larger size will affect the SDK performance in load times and memory usage.

## Binary compatibility issues
BuildXL execution logs are binary files that store serialized object data. It very is important that the same BuildXL binaries (and matching Execution Log SDK assembly) that generated the execution log are used to load data from it. The use of incompatible BuildXL binaries will result in an exception being thrown by the SDK.

## Getting started with the Execution Log SDK
This section is an introduction to the Execution Log SDK and uses PowerShell to demonstrate various SDK features.
You must use a 64 bit PowerShell because the amount of data that loaded from the execution log can easily surpass the 32 bit 2GB limit.

### Obtaining BuildXL and Execution Log SDK binaries
The Execution Log SDK assembly, Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.dll, is located in the same folder as all other BuildXL assemblies.

### Loading the BuildXL Execution Log SDK types
The BuildXL Execution Log SDK is implemented as a .NET assembly called Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.dll. All SDK types are located in the Tools.ExecutionLogSDK namespace.

To load all Execution Log SDK types dynamically into the current PowerShell process, issue the following PowerShell command:
````PowerShell
# Load ExecutionLog SDK types into the current PowerShell process
# $ExecutionLogSdkDll contains the full path to Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.dll
Add-Type -Path $ExecutionLogSdkDll
````

### Loading the execution log data
Loading the execution log data requires a single method call:
````PowerShell
# $ExecutionLogFile contains the full path to the BuildXL execution log to load
$executionLogInstance = [Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.ExecutionLog]::LoadExecutionLog($ExecutionLogFile,
 [Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.ExecutionLogLoadOptions]::LoadEverything);
````

### Querying the execution log data
[Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.ExecutionLog::LoadExecutionLog](#LoadExecutionLog1) loads data from an execution log and returns an ExecutionLog object that exposes the loaded data through a set of dictionaries and collections.

#### Query the total number of process pips in the build
````PowerShell
# Display the total number of process pips
'Total number of process pips: {0}' -f($ExecutionLogInstance.PipIdDictionary.Values.Count)
````

#### Query the number of pips that failed during the build
````PowerShell
# Get the list of pips that executed and failed
$FailedPips = @($ExecutionLogInstance.PipIdDictionary.Values | Where-Object {$_.HasFailed})
'Number of pips that failed: {0}' -f($FailedPips.length) | Write-Host
````

#### List the pips that depend on windows.h
````PowerShell
# Locate all instances of windows.h (there may be multiple copies in various folders)
$fileDescriptors = $executionLogInstance.FileDescriptorDictionary.Values | Where-Object{$_.FileName.Contains('windows.h')}

# List the pips that depend on each windows.h instance
ForEach($file in $fileDescriptors)
{
    "`tThere are {0} pips that depend on {1}." -f ($file.DependentPips.Count, $file.FileName) | Write-Host
    ForEach($p in $file.DependentPips)
    {
         "`t`t{0}" -f ($p.PipName) | Write-Host
    }
}
````

#### List the pip that produces a given file
````PowerShell
# Locate all instances of the file (there may be multiple copies in various folders)
$fileDescriptors = $executionLogInstance.FileDescriptorDictionary.Values | Where-Object{$_.FileName.Contains('Filename.txt')}

# List the pips that produce each file
ForEach($file in $fileDescriptors)
{
    "`tThere are {0} pips that produce {1}." -f ($file.ProducingPips.Count, $file.FileName) | Write-Host
    ForEach($p in $file.ProducingPips)
    {
         "`t`t{0}" -f ($p.PipName) | Write-Host
    }
}
````

#### List processes that access a given file during the build
````PowerShell
$file = "Filename.txt"
# Retrieve matching reported file access records
$rfas = @($executionLogInstance.ReportedFileAccessesDictionary.Keys| Where-Object{$_.Contains($file)} | ForEach-Object{$executionLogInstance.ReportedFileAccessesDictionary[$_]})

# Print the results
if($rfas -and ($rfas.Count -gt 0))
{
    ForEach($rfa in $rfas)
    {
        $ResultString = "{0},{1},{2,16:X16},{3}" -f ($rfa.ReportedFileAccess.Path, $rfa.Pip.PipName, $rfa.Pip.PipId, $rfa.ReportedFileAccess.Process.Path)
        $ResultString+= ",{0}" -f($rfa.ReportedFileAccess.Process.ProcessId)
        $ResultString+= ",{0}" -f($rfa.ReportedFileAccess.Operation.ToString())
        $ResultString+= ",{0}" -f($rfa.ReportedFileAccess.RequestedAccess.ToString())
        $ResultString+= ",{0}" -f($rfa.ReportedFileAccess.Status.ToString())
        $ResultString+= ",{0}" -f($rfa.ReportedFileAccess.Process.ProcessArgs)

        Write-Output $ResultString
    }
}
else
{
    "{0} is not accessed during the build" -f ($file) | Write-Host
}
````

#### List all the tools that are launched during the build ordered by the number of pips that launch them
````PowerShell
    # Count the total number of processes launched during the build
    # The total count is the sum of pips that launch each tool
    $processCount = ($executionLogInstance.ReportedProcessesDictionary.Values | ForEach-Object {$_.PipsThatExecuteTheProcess.Values.Count}| Measure-Object  -Sum).Sum;
    "`r`nNumber of all processes launched during the build: " -f $processCount | Write-Host

    # List tools sorted by the number of pips that launch them
    Foreach ($i in $executionLogInstance.ReportedProcessesDictionary.Values | Sort-Object {$_.PipsThatExecuteTheProcess.Count} -descending)
    {
        "{0} - {2}" -f ($i.ProcessExecutable, $i.PipsThatExecuteTheProcess.Count) | Write-Host
    }

````

#### List all pips that launch a given tool and show the process id and process arguments for each process
````PowerShell
$toolName = "tool.exe"
$ToolProcessDescriptor = $executionLogInstance.ReportedProcessesDictionary[$toolName]

"{0} - {1}" -f($ToolProcessDescriptor.ProcessExecutable, $ToolProcessDescriptor.PipsThatExecuteTheProcess.Count) | Write-Host
Foreach ($p in $ToolProcessDescriptor.PipsThatExecuteTheProcess.GetEnumerator())
{
    "PipName: {0}" -f $p.Key.PipName | Write-Host
    Foreach ($v in $p.Value.GetEnumerator())
    {
        ("ProcessId: " + $v.ProcessId) | Write-Host
        ("Args: " + $v.ProcessArgs) | Write-Host
    }
}
````
## Filtering
The easiest way to reduce the amount of data loaded is to use [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions). To have more fine grained control over exactly what data is loaded, filters should be used. There are three types of filters: [PipFilters](#IPipFilter), [ModuleFilters](#IModuleFilter), and [FileFilters](#IFileFilter). These filters can be added to a [LoadContext](#LoadContext) object which is then passed into [LoadExecutionLog](#LoadExecutionLog3). If multiple filters of a particular type are added, all must return true to allow the object of that type to be loaded.

For simple filterting needs, the [PipFilter](#PipFilter), [ModuleFilter](#ModuleFilter), and [FileFilter](#FileFilter) classes can be used. The simplest and most performant option is include and exclude filtering of names by prefixes. For more flexibility with name filtering, a regex can be supplied (although using a regex with [PipFilters](#PipFilter) and [FileFilters](#FileFilter) might cause a noticeable slowdown). Additionally, the actual delegate to use when filtering can be directly specified. To see how to use these, look at 'LoadExecutionLogWithFilers.ps1' under [Sample Code](#SampleCode).

For more advanced filtering, a new filter type can be made by creating a class that implements the appropriate interface ([IPipFilter](#IPipFilter), [IModuleFilter](#IModuleFilter) or [IFileFIlter](#IFileFilter)). Implementing the interfaces is very straightforward as there is just one method to implement. This can actually be done entirely within in a Powershell script. The following is an example of implementing [IPipFilter](#IPipFilter) in Powershell:
````PowerShell
$assemblies = @("$BuildXLPath\BuildXL.Engine.dll","$BuildXLPath\BuildXL.Pips.dll", "$BuildXLPath\BuildXL.Utilities.dll", "$BuildXLPath\Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.dll")
Add-Type -ReferencedAssemblies $assemblies -Language CSharp -TypeDefinition @'
using System;
using BuildXL.Engine;
using BuildXL.Pips.Operations;
using Tool.ExecutionLogSdk;

namespace PipFilter
{
    public class PipNameFilter : IPipFilter
    {
        private string m_pipPrefix;

        public PipNameFilter(string pipPrefix)
        {
            m_pipPrefix = pipPrefix;
        }

        public bool ShouldLoadPip(Process process, CachedGraph cachedGraph)
        {
            if (process.Provenance.OutputValueSymbol.ToString(cachedGraph.Context.SymbolTable).StartsWith(m_pipPrefix, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase))
            {
                return true;
            }
            return false;
        }
    }
}
'@
````
Next, this new pip filter can be instantiated, added to a load context object, and then the execution log can be loaded:
````Powershell
$pipFilter = New-Object PipFilter.PipNameFilter("MsWin")
$loadContext = New-Object Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.LoadContext([Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.ExecutionLogLoadOptions]::LoadEverything)
$loadContext.AddPipFilter($pipFilter)

$el = [Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.ExecutionLog]::LoadExecutionLog($ExecutionLogFile, [Tool.ExecutionLogSdk.ExecutionLogLoadOptions]::LoadEverything, $loadContext);
````
To see a full powershell script example of this, look at CustomFilters.ps1 under [Sample Code](#SampleCode).

## <p id="SampleCode">Sample code</p>
* There are sample PowerShell scripts in `<BuildXLBinaryDeploymentFolder>\documentation\ExecutionLogSDK\SampleScripts`

# Execution Log SDK Reference

## Tool.ExecutionLogSdk namespace
### <p id="ExecutionLog">ExecutionLog class</p>
Loads an execution log and exposes a set of dictionaries that allow easy access to the data.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
**DirectoryDescriptorDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, [DirectoryDescriptor](#DirectoryDescriptor)&#62; | Maps directory paths to directory descriptor objects. The dictionary contains descriptors for all directories that have been accessed during the build.
**EnvironmentVariablesDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, [EnvironmentVariableDescriptor](#EnvironmentVariableDescriptor)&#62; | Maps environment variable names to environment variable descriptor objects. The dictionary contains descriptors for all environment variables that were present in the running environments of at least one pips.
**FileDescriptorDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, [FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor)&#62; | Maps file names (with full path) to file descriptor objects. The dictionary contains descriptors for all files that have been accessed during the build.
**PipIdDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;uint, [PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | Maps pip Ids (unique numeric values assigned to pips by BuildXL) to pip descriptor objects. The dictionary contains descriptors for all Process pips.
**PipNameDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor) &#62; | Maps pip names to pip descriptor objects. Pip names are not guaranteed to be unique and there may be multiple matching pips for a pip name.
**ReportedFileAccessesDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, [ReportedFileAccessDescriptor](#ReportedFileAccessDescriptor)&#62; | Maps file names (with full path) to reported file access descriptor objects. The dictionary contains descriptors for all files accesses that have been reported during the build.
**ReportedProcessesDictionary** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, [ProcessDescriptor](#ProcessDescriptor)&#62; | Maps process executables (with full path) to process descriptor objects. The dictionary contains descriptors for all executables that have been launched as part of the build.

#### Methods:
##### LoadExecutionLog<p id="LoadExecutionLog1"></p>
Loads an execution log and returns a new instance of an ExecutionLog object containing the loaded data.

###### Syntax:

public static ExecutionLog LoadExecutionLog(string executionLogFile, ExecutionLogLoadOptions loadOptions = ExecutionLogLoadOptions.LoadPipDataBuildGraphAndPipPerformanceData)

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| executionLogFile | string | The name of the execution log file with full path (i.e. c:\BuildXLogPath\BuildXL.1.xlg). If there is no XLG file, the path to the folder that contains the static pip data can also be specified (c:\BuildXLLogPath\BuildXL.1).
| loadOptions | [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) | Specifies what data to load from the execution log.

###### Return value:
| Type | Description
| --- | ---
| [ExecutionLog](#ExecutionLog) | New [ExecutionLog](#ExecutionLog) instance populated with the data from the execution log.

###### Exceptions:

| Exception Type | Description
| --- | ---
| InvalidDataException | The specified XLG file is invalid or it contains incorrect data.

##### LoadExecutionLog<p id="LoadExecutionLog2"></p>
Loads an execution log and returns a new instance of an ExecutionLog object containing the loaded data. File filters can be specified that control which files' data will be loaded.

###### Syntax:

```
public static ExecutionLog LoadExecutionLog(string executionLogFile, ExecutionLogLoadOptions loadOptions, IEnumerable<string> fileFilters, bool excludeFilter)
```

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| executionLogFile | string | The name of the execution log file with full path (i.e. c:\BuildXLLogPath\BuildXL.1.xlg). If there is no XLG file, the path to the folder that contains the static pip data can also be specified (c:\BuildXLLogPath\BuildXL.1).
| loadOptions | [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) | Specifies what data to load from the execution log.
| fileFilters | IEnumerable&#60;string&#62; | String array containing a list of filters that are used to determine if a file that is referenced in the execution log should be loaded or not.
| excludeFilter | bool | When true, the file filters are exclude filters and files with names that start with any of the prefixes that are listed in fileFilters will not be loaded. When false, the file filters are include filters and only files that start with at least one prefix listed will be loaded.

###### Return value:
| Type | Description
| --- | ---
| [ExecutionLog](#ExecutionLog) | New [ExecutionLog](#ExecutionLog) instance populated with the data from the execution log.

###### Exceptions:

| Exception Type | Description
| --- | ---
| InvalidDataException | The specified XLG file is invalid or it contains incorrect data.

##### AbsolutePathToPathString<p id="AbsolutePathToPathString"></p>
Converts an AbsolutePath instance into a string containing the full path from the AbsolutePath instance.

###### Syntax:

`public string AbsolutePathToPathString(AbsolutePath path)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| AbsolutePath | string | The AbsolutePath instance to extract the full path string from.


###### Return value:
| Type | Description
| --- | ---
| string | String containing the full path from the AbsolutePath object.

###### Exceptions:

| Exception Type | Description
| --- | ---
| InvalidDataException | The specified XLG file is invalid or it contains incorrect data.

##### LoadExecutionLog<p id="LoadExecutionLog1"></p>
Loads an execution log and returns a new instance of an ExecutionLog object containing the loaded data.

###### Syntax:

```
public static ExecutionLog LoadExecutionLog(string executionLogFile, ExecutionLogLoadOptions loadOptions = ExecutionLogLoadOptions.LoadPipDataBuildGraphAndPipPerformanceData)
```

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| executionLogFile | string | The name of the execution log file with full path (i.e. c:\BuildXLLogPath\BuildXL.1.xlg). If there is no XLG file, the path to the folder that contains the static pip data can also be specified (c:\BuildXLLogPath\BuildXL.1).
| loadOptions | [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) | Specifies what data to load from the execution log.

###### Return value:
| Type | Description
| --- | ---
| [ExecutionLog](#ExecutionLog) | New [ExecutionLog](#ExecutionLog) instance populated with the data from the execution log.

### <p id="ExecutionLogLoadOptions">ExecutionLogLoadOptions enumeration</p>
Enumeration used to filter the data loaded from execution logs.
Pass [ExecutionLog::LoadExecutionLog](#LoadExecutionLog1) a combination (with binary OR) of these enumeration values to reduce the data that is loaded from the execution log and significantly improve load times.

Name | Value | Description
--- | --- | ---
**None** | 0x0 | Default value, same as LoadPipDataOnly.
**LoadPipDataOnly** | 0x0 | Load pip data only (this is the minimum amount of data that can be loaded).
**LoadBuildGraph** | 0x1 | Load the build graph.
**LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData** | 0x2 | Load PipExecutionPerformanceData events.
**LoadFileHashValues** | 0x4 | Load FileArtifactContentDecided events.
**LoadObservedInputs** | 0x8 | Load ObservedInputs events.
**<p id="LoadProcessMonitoringData">LoadProcessMonitoringData</p>** | 0x10 | Load [ReportedProcess](#ReportedProcess) data from ProcessExecutionMonitoringReported events.
**LoadDirectoryMemberships** | 0x20 | Load DirectoryMembershipHashed events.
**LoadDirectoryMembershipsForUnusedFiles** | LoadDirectoryMemberships &#124; 0x40 | When NOT specified, files that are not referenced by any pips during the build will be skipped while processing DirectoryMembershipHashed events.
**<p id="LoadReportedFileAccesses">LoadReportedFileAccesses</p>** | LoadProcessMonitoringData &#124; 0x80 | Load [ReportedFileAccess](#ReportedFileAccess) data from ProcessExecutionMonitoringReported events.
**LoadExecutedPipsOnly** | LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; 0x100 | Only load data for pips that ran during the build.
**DoNotLoadRarelyUsedPipProperties** | LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; 0x200 | Will not load some rarely used pip properties.
**DoNotLoadSourceFiles** | LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; 0x400 | Will not load any source files.
**DoNotLoadOutputFiles** | LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; 0x800 | Will not load any output files.
**LoadProcessFingerprintComputations** | 0x1000 | Load ProcessFingerprintComputed events.
**LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph** | LoadPipDataOnly &#124; LoadBuildGraph | Load pip data and build graph.
**LoadPipDataBuildGraphAndPipPerformanceData** | LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph &#124; LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData | Load pip data, build graph and pip execution performance data.
**LoadPipDataBuildGraphAndFileHashes** | LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph &#124; LoadFileHashValues | Load pip data, build graph and file hashes.
**LoadPipDataBuildGraphAndObservedFileAccesses** | LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph &#124; LoadObservedInputs | Load pip data, build graph and observed file inputs.
**LoadEverything** | LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph &#124; LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; LoadProcessMonitoringData &#124; LoadFileHashValues &#124; LoadObservedInputs &#124; LoadDirectoryMemberships &#124; LoadDirectoryMembershipsForUnusedFiles &#124; LoadReportedFileAccesses &#124; LoadProcessFingerprintComputations | Load everything.
**LoadEverythingButDirectoryMemberships** | LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph &#124; LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; LoadProcessMonitoringData &#124; LoadFileHashValues &#124; LoadObservedInputs &#124; LoadReportedFileAccesses &#124; LoadProcessFingerprintComputations | Load everything but directory memberships.
**LoadEverythingButDirectoryMembershipsAndReportedFileAccesses** | LoadPipDataAndBuildGraph &#124; LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData &#124; LoadProcessMonitoringData &#124; LoadFileHashValues &#124; LoadObservedInputs &#124; LoadProcessFingerprintComputations | Load everything but directory memberships and reported file accesses.

The use of [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) can significantly reduce the amount of data loaded from the execution log and as a result some data fields in various descriptor objects will not be populated or will have default values.
The following table lists the fields that are affected by each [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) value.

Load Option | Fields not populated when the load option is not set
--- | ---
**LoadBuildGraph** | PipDescriptor::TransitiveDependentPips, PipDescriptor::CriticalPathLength, PipDescriptor::CriticalPath, PipDescriptor::AdjacentInNodes, PipDescriptor::AdjacentOutNodes, PipDescriptor::CriticalPathBasedOnNumberOfPipsProducedFromCache PipDescriptor::NumberOfFilesProducedFromCacheOnCriticalPath.
**LoadFileHashValues** | FileDescriptor::ContentHash, FileDescriptor::ContentLength, FileDescriptor::RewriteCount
**LoadPipExecutionPerformanceData** | PipDescriptor::PipExecutionPerformance, PipDescriptor::WasExecuted, PipDescriptor::WasItDeployedFromCache, PipDescriptor::WasItProducedDuringTheBuild, PipDescriptor::HasFailed, PipDescriptor::WasItUpToDate, PipDescriptor::WasItBuilt, PipDescriptor::CriticalPathBasedOnNumberOfPipsProducedFromCache, PipDescriptor::NumberOfFilesProducedFromCacheOnCriticalPath, PipDescriptor::CriticalPathLength, PipDescriptor::CriticalPath.
**LoadObservedInputs** | ExecutionLog::FileDescriptorDictionary (will not include files with observed file accesses), FileDescriptor::IsObservedInputFile, FileDescriptor::ContentHash, FileDescriptor::DependentPips (will not include files with observed file accesses) PipDescriptor::ObservedInputs
**LoadProcessMonitoringData** | ProcessDescriptor::PipsThatExecuteTheProcessDictionary ExecutionLog::ReportedProcessesDictionary PipDescriptor::ReportedProcesses.
**LoadDirectoryMemberships** | ExecutionLog::DirectoryDescritporDictionary (will only include directories loaded from the static pip data and not from the event logs), ExecutionLog::FileDescriptorDictionary (will only include files that are loaded from static pip data, from observed file inputs or had file hashes reported through FileArtifactContentDecided events), DirectoryDescriptor::Files, FileDescriptor::DirectoriesThatContainThisFile.
**LoadDirectoryMembershipsForUnusedFiles** | Same as LoadDirectoryMemberships.
**LoadReportedFileAccesses** | ExecutionLog::ReportedFileAccessesDictionary.
**LoadExecutedPipsOnly** | This option skips pips that did not run during the build. Since less data is being loaded, this option improves execution log load time considerably.
**SkipRarelyUsedPipProperties** | When specified, the following PipDescriptor properties will not be loaded: PipDescriptor::Usage, PipDescriptor::DominoSpecFile, PipDescriptor::Arguments, PipDescriptor::StandardInputFile, PipDescriptor::StandardInputData, PipDescriptor::StandardError, PipDescriptor::StandardDirectory, PipDescriptor::HasUntrackedChildProcesses, PipDescriptor::WarningTimeout, PipDescriptor::Timeout, PipDescriptor::ResponseFile, PipDescriptor::ResponseFileData, PipDescriptor::WarningRegexPattern, PipDescriptor::WarningRegexOptions, PipDescriptor::SuccessExitCodesHashset, PipDescriptor::ToolName, PipDescriptor::ToolDescription, PipDescriptor::UntrackedPathsHashset, PipDescriptor::UntrackedScopesHashset, PipDescriptor::EnvironmentVariables
**DoNotLoadSourceFiles** | When set, there will be no FileDescriptor objects created and added to ExecutionLog::FileDescriptorDictionary for any source files. In addition, the following objects will NOT include references to source files: PipDescriptor::DependentFiles, PipDescriptor::ObservedInputs, DirectoryDescriptor::Files, PipDescriptor::ProbedFiles.
**DoNotLoadOutputFiles** | When set, there will be no FileDescriptor objects created and added to ExecutionLog::FileDescriptorDictionary for any source files. In addition, the following objects will NOT include references to source files: PipDescriptor::OutputFiles, DirectoryDescriptor::Files.
**LoadProcessFingerprintComputations** | PipDescriptor::Fingerprint, PipDescriptor::FingerprintKind, PipDescriptor::StrongFingerprintComputations
### <p id="LoadContext">LoadContext class</p>
Controls which data is loaded

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
**LoadOptions** | [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) | Enumeration used to filter the data loaded from execution logs.

#### Methods:
##### LoadContext<p id="LoadContextConstructor"></p>
Instances a [LoadContext](#LoadContext) object with the specified [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions).

###### Syntax:

```
public LoadContext(ExecutionLogLoadOptions loadOptions = ExecutionLogLoadOptions.LoadPipDataBuildGraphAndPipPerformanceData)
```

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| loadOptions | [ExecutionLogLoadOptions](#ExecutionLogLoadOptions) | Specifies what data to load from the execution log.

##### AddPipFilter<p id="AddPipFilter"></p>
Adds an [IPipFilter](#IPipFilter) instance

###### Syntax:

`public void AddPipFilter(IPipFilter pipFilter)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| pipFilter | [IPipFilter](#IPipFilter) | The [IPipFilter](#IPipFilter) to add

##### AddModuleFilter<p id="AddModuleFilter"></p>
Adds an [IModuleFilter](#IModuleFilter) instance

###### Syntax:

`public void AddModuleFilter(IModuleFilter moduleFilter)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| moduleFilter | [IModuleFilter](#IModuleFilter) | The [IModuleFilter](#IModuleFilter) to add

##### AddFileFilter<p id="AddFileFilter"></p>
Adds an [IFileFilter](#IFileFilter) instance

###### Syntax:

`public void AddFileFilter(IFileFilter fileFilter)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| fileFilter | [IFileFilter](#IFileFilter) | The [IFileFilter](#IFileFilter) to add

### <p id="IPipFilter">IPipFilter interface</p>
Interface to allow SDK users to implement their own logic on whether to load pips or not.

#### Methods:
##### ShouldLoadPip<p id="ShouldLoadPip"></p>
Returns true or false to indicate whether or not to load the specified process pip.

###### Syntax:

`bool ShouldLoadPip(Process process, CachedGraph cachedGraph)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| process | Process | The process pip to load or not
| cachedGraph | CachedGraph | Provides access to the BuildXL data that can be useful in determining whether or not to load the pip

### <p id="IModuleFilter">IModuleFilter interface</p>
Interface to allow SDK users to implement their own logic on whether to load modules or not.

#### Methods:
##### ShouldLoadModule<p id="ShouldLoadPip"></p>
Returns true or false to indicate whether or not to load the specified module.

###### Syntax:

`bool ShouldLoadModule(ModulePip module, CachedGraph cachedGraph)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| module | ModulePip | The module to load or not
| cachedGraph | CachedGraph | Provides access to the BuildXL data that can be useful in determining whether or not to load the module

### <p id="IFileFilter">IFileFilter interface</p>
Interface to allow SDK users to implement their own logic on whether to load files or not.

#### Methods:
##### ShouldLoadFile<p id="ShouldLoadFile"></p>
Returns true or false to indicate whether or not to load the specified file.

###### Syntax:

`bool ShouldLoadFile(string filename)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| filename | string | The filename of the file to load or not

### <p id="PipFilter">PipFilter class</p>
Controls which pips are loaded

#### Constructors:
##### PipFilter<p id="PipFilterConstructor1"></p>
Instances a [PipFilter](#PipFilter) object with the specified delegate method.

###### Syntax:

`public PipFilter(FuncFunc&#60;Process, CachedGraph, boolFunc&#62; pipFilterFunction)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| pipFilterFunction | Func&#60;Process, CachedGraph, bool&#62; | The delegate method to use to decide whether to load a particular pip.

##### PipFilter<p id="PipFilterConstructor2"></p>
Instances a [PipFilter](#PipFilter) object where the filter will load pips that either match one or more of the specified pip name prefixes or match none of the specified pip name prefixes, depending on the value of pipExcludeFilter.

###### Syntax:

```
public PipFilter(IEnumerableFunc&#60;stringFunc&#62; pipFilters, bool pipExcludeFilter = false)
```

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| pipFilters | IEnumerable&#60;string&#62; | List of pip name prefixes used to specify which pips to load.
| pipExcludeFilter | bool | When true, the pip filters are exclude filters and pips with names that start with any of the prefixes that are listed in pipFilters will not be loaded. When false, the pip filters are include filters and only pip names that start with at least one prefix listed will be loaded

##### PipFilter<p id="PipFilterConstructor3"></p>
Instances a [PipFilter](#PipFilter) object where the filter will load only those pips that match the specified regex.

###### Syntax:

`public PipFilter(Regex pipNameFilter)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| pipNameFilter | Regex | The pip name regex to filter which pips are loaded

### <p id="ModuleFilter">ModuleFilter class</p>
Controls which files are loaded

#### Constructors:
##### ModuleFilter<p id="ModuleFilterConstructor1"></p>
Instances a [ModuleFilter](#ModuleFilter) object with the specified delegate method.

###### Syntax:

`public ModuleFilter(FuncFunc&#60;Process, CachedGraph, boolFunc&#62; moduleFilterFunction)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| moduleFilterFunction | Func&#60;Process, CachedGraph, bool&#62; | The delegate method to use to decide whether to load a particular module.

##### ModuleFilter<p id="ModuleFilterConstructor2"></p>
Instances a [ModuleFilter](#ModuleFilter) object where the filter will load modules that either match one or more of the specified module name prefixes or match none of the specified module name prefixes, depending on the value of moduleExcludeFilter.

###### Syntax:

`public ModuleFilter(IEnumerableFunc&#60;stringFunc&#62; moduleFilters, bool moduleExcludeFilter = false)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| moduleFilters | IEnumerable&#60;string&#62; | List of module name prefixes used to specify which modules to load.
| moduleExcludeFilter | bool | When true, the module filters are exclude filters and modules with names that start with any of the prefixes that are listed in moduleFilters will not be loaded. When false, the module filters are include filters and only module names that start with at least one prefix listed will be loaded

##### ModuleFilter<p id="ModuleFilterConstructor3"></p>
Instances a [ModuleFilter](#ModuleFilter) object where the filter will load only those modules that match the specified regex.

###### Syntax:

public ModuleFilter(Regex moduleNameFilter)

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| moduleNameFilter | Regex | The module name regex to filter which modules are loaded

### <p id="FileFilter">FileFilter class</p>
Controls which files are loaded

#### Constructors:
##### FileFilter<p id="FileFilterConstructor1"></p>
Instances a [FileFilter](#FileFilter) object with the specified delegate method.

###### Syntax:

`public FileFilter(FuncFunc&#60;string, boolFunc&#62; fileFilterFunction)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| fileFilterFunction | Func&#60;string, bool&#62; | The delegate method to use to decide whether to load a particular file.

##### FileFilter<p id="FileFilterConstructor2"></p>
Instances a [FileFilter](#FileFilter) object where the filter will load files that either match one or more of the specified file name prefixes or match none of the specified file name prefixes, depending on the value of fileExcludeFilter.

###### Syntax:

`public FileFilter(IEnumerableFunc&#60;stringFunc&#62; fileFilters, bool fileExcludeFilter = false)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| fileFilters | IEnumerable&#60;string&#62; | List of file name prefixes used to specify which files to load.
| fileExcludeFilter | bool | When true, the file filters are exclude filters and files with names that start with any of the prefixes that are listed in fileFilters will not be loaded. When false, the file filters are include filters and only file names that start with at least one prefix listed will be loaded

##### FileFilter<p id="FileFilterConstructor3"></p>
Instances a [FileFilter](#FileFilter) object where the filter will load only those files that match the specified regex.

###### Syntax:

`public FileFilter(Regex fileNameFilter)`

###### Parameters:
| Name | Type | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| fileNameFilter | Regex | The module name regex to filter which files are loaded

### <p id="DirectoryDescriptor">DirectoryDescriptor class</p>
Describes a directory that has been accessed during the build.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
**ContentHashes** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor), [ContentHash](#ContentHash) &#62; | Pip specific hash values generated by BuildXL based on the content of the directory.
**DependentPips** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | Pips that depend on files from this directory.
**Files** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor)&#62; | Files referenced by the build from this directory.
**IsObservedInput** | bool | Signals that the directory has been accessed during the build, but it has not been specified in spec files as a dependency.
**Path** | string | The name of the environment variable.
**ProducingPips** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | Pips that produce files in this directory.

#### Methods:
None.

### <p id="EnvironmentVariableDescriptor">EnvironmentVariableDescriptor class</p>
Represents an environment variable that was present in the running environment of one or more pips during the build.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**IsPassthrough** | bool | Signals that the environment variable is a passthrough variable that is not hashed when the BuildXL engine calculates various fingerprints. Passthrough variables do not have a value. Pips that have passthrough environment variables in their running environment are added to the ReferencingPips collection with string.Empty as their value. 
**Name** | string | The name of the environment variable.
**ReferencingPips** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | The pips that use (or at least can "see" the value of) the environment variable in their execution process. Refer to [PipDescriptor::EnvironmentVariables](#EnvironmentVariables) for the actual value of the variable as seen by the pip's execution process.

#### Methods:
None.

### <p id="FileDescriptor">FileDescriptor class</p>
Describes a file that was accessed during the build.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**ContentHash** | [ContentHash](#ContentHash) | The hash value of the file's content.
**ContentLength** | long | The content length in bytes, or -1 when the file length is not available.
**DependentPips** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | The pips that depend on this file.
**DirectoriesThatContainThisFile** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[DirectoryDescriptor](#DirectoryDescriptor)&#62; | The directories that contain this file.
**FileId** | int | Unique file identifier.
**FileName** | string | The name of the file with full path.
**IsObservedInputFile** | bool | Signals that the file has been accessed by some pips during the build and these pips did not declare the file as a source file.
**IsOutputFile** | bool | Signals that the file is an output for a pip.
**IsSourceFile** | bool | Signals that the file is a source (input) file for at least one pip.
**IsTool** | bool | Signals that the file is a tool that is being executed by one or more pips.
**PipsThatExecuteThisFile** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | The pips that execute this file.
**ProducingPips** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | The pips that produce this file.
**RewriteCount** | int | The number of times the file has been written during the build. 0 means the files is source file, >0 means that file is an output file.
**WasFileProbed** | bool | Signals that the file has been probed and it did not exist.
**WasItDeployedFromCache** | bool | Signals that the file has been deployed from cache and has not been built.
**WasItProducedDuringTheBuild** | bool | Signals that this file has been built during the build (it was not deployed from cache, was not up to date and did not fail to build).

#### Methods:
None.

### <p id="ModuleDescriptor">ModuleDescriptor class</p>
Describes a single BuildXL module.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**ModuleId** | int | The Id of the module.
**ModuleName** | string | The name of the module.
**ModuleLocation** | string | The location of the module definition file.

### <p id="PipDescriptor">PipDescriptor class</p>
Describes one pip from the build graph.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**AdjacentInNodes** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | The pips that the current pip directly dependents on.
**AdjacentOutNodes** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | The pips that are directly dependent on the current pip.
**Arguments** | string | The Arguments assigned to the pip's process.
**CriticalPath** | [PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor) | The next pip on the critical path. The critical path is the dependency chain with the longest execution time.
**CriticalPathBasedOnNumber OfPipsProducedFromCache** | [PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor) | The next pip on the critical path. The critical path is based on the number of pips who's outputs have been produced from cache.
**CriticalPathLength** | int | The amount of time (in milliseconds) it takes to execute the pips on the critical path starting from the current pip. The critical path is the dependency chain with the longest execution time.
**DependencyChainLength** | int | The length of the pip's dependency chain (only counting the Process pips in the chain).
**DependentFiles** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor)&#62; | The files that the pip depends on. This collection includes source file dependencies extracted from the static build graph and does not include observed file accesses detected during the execution of the pip. Check [ObservedInputs](#ObservedInputs)  for observed inputs.
**DirectoryDependencies** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[DirectoryDescriptor](#DirectoryDescriptor)&#62; | The directories that the pip has accessed (enumerated or read files from) during the build.
**DirectoryOutputs** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[DirectoryDescriptor](#DirectoryDescriptor)&#62; | The directories that the pip produced outputs into.
**DominoSpecFile** | string | The name of the BuildXL spec file that contains the definition of the pip.
<p id="EnvironmentVariables">**EnvironmentVariables**</p> | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;string, string&#62; | The environment variables and their values as seen by the process that the pip has executed.
**Executable** | [FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor) | The tool to launch when running the pip.
**Fingerprint** | ContentHash | The fingerprint hash value of the pip.
**FingerprintKind** | [FingerprintComputationKind](#FingerprintComputationKind) | Specifies if the pip fingerprint has been calculated as a part of post execution or during a cache hit check.
**HasFailed** | bool | Flag that signals that the pip ran and it failed building.
**HasUntrackedChildProcesses** | bool | Signals that the pip has nested processes that BuildXL did not track as dependencies.
**IsInitialized** | bool | Flag that signals that the pip descriptor has been initialized and ready to be used.
**Module** | [ModuleDescriptor](#ModuleDescriptor) | Module descriptor that identifies the module that the pip belongs to.
**NodeHeight** | int | The length of the pip's dependency chain based on the number of dependent pips when considering the whole build graph, not just the build graph containing Process pips only.
**NodeId** | [NodeId](#NodeId) | BuildXL provided node id used to identify the pip in the build graph.
**NumberOfFilesProducedFrom CacheOnCriticalPath** | int | The total number of files produced from cache by pips that are on the critical path starting from the current pip. The critical path is based on the number of pips who's outputs have been produced from cache.
<p id="ObservedInputs">**ObservedInputs**</p> | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor)&#62; | The files that the pip has accessed during the build without explicitly declaring it as a dependency.
**OutputFiles** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor)&#62; | The output files that are being produced by the pip. The content of this collection is based on static data extracted from the static build graph. When a file is listed here it means that the pip generates this file either through executing a command or by getting the file from cache. Check [WasExecuted](#WasExecuted) to determine if the pip ran or populated its outputs from cache.
**PipExecutionPerformance** | [ProcessPipExecution Performance](#ProcessPipExecutionPerformance) | Pip execution performance metrics.
**PipId** | uint | Unique pip identifier that is assigned to every pip by BuildXL.
**PipName** | string | The name of the pip. This name is not necessarily unique throughout the build.
**PipType** | [PipType](#PipType) | The type of the pip. The SDK only loads process pips, therefore the value of this property is always PipType.Process.
**ProbedFiles** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[FileDescriptor](#FileDescriptor)&#62;  | Collection containing the files that the pip has probed during the build (and the file did not exist).
**QualifierName** | string | A human-readable representation of the build qualifier.
**ReportedProcesses** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[ProcessInstance Descriptor](#ProcessInstanceDescriptor)&#62;  | Process instance descriptors for all processes launched by the current pip (directly or indirectly).
**ResponseFile** | string | The name of the response file (if any) that was used when executing the pip.
**ResponseFileData** | string | The data from the response file.
**SemiStableHash** | long | Pip identifier that is stable across BuildXL runs with an identical schedule. This identifier is not guaranteed to be unique, but should be unique in practice.
**StandardDirectory** | string | The name of the file that receives the pip's standard directory.
**StandardError** | string | The name of the file that receives the pip's standard error.
**StandardInputData** | string | Data that has been passed to the pip's standard input.
**StandardInputFile** | string | The name of the file that receives the pip's standard input.
**StandardOutput** | string | The name of the file that receives the pip's standard output.
**StrongFingerprintComputations** | IReadOnlyList&#60;[ProcessStrongFingerprintComputationData](#ProcessStrongFingerprintComputationData)&#62; | The list of strong fingerprint computations executed by the pip.
**SuccessExitCodes** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;int&#62; | The exit codes that represent success.
**Tags** | IReadOnlyCollection<string> | Pip tags.
**Timeout** | long | A hard timeout after which the Process was marked as failing due to timeout and terminated.
**ToolDescription** | string | The description of the tool associated with the pip, or empty string if the pip doesn't map to a tool.
**ToolName** | string | The name of the tool associated with the pip, or empty string if the pip doesn't map to a tool.
**TransitiveDependentPips** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor)&#62; | Collection of process pips that the current pip depends on (directly or indirectly).
**UntrackedPaths** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;string&#62; | External file dependencies that are no tracked by the BuildXL scheduler.
**UntrackedScopes** | IReadOnlyCollection&#60;string&#62; | External directory dependencies that are no tracked by the BuildXL scheduler.
**Usage** | string | An optional string that describes the particular details of this pip.
**WarningRegexOptions** | RegexOptions | A bitwise combination of the options that modify WarningRegexPattern
**WarningRegexPattern** | string | Optional regular expression to detect warnings in console error / output.
**WarningTimeout** | long | An interval value that indicates after which time a tool was issuing warnings that it is running longer than anticipated.
**WasDeployedFromCache** | bool | Flag that signals that the pip has been pulled from cache.
<p id="WasExecuted">**WasExecuted**</p> | bool | Flag that signals that the pip has ran during the build (the pip either executed, failed, was up to date or it's outputs have been deployed from cache).
**WasItBuilt** | bool | Flag that signals that the pip ran and it's output has been built (not pulled from cache and was not up to date).
**WasItUpToDate** | bool | Flag that signals that the pip ran and it's output has been up to date.
**WorkingDirectory** | string | The directory where the pip is executed.
        
#### Methods:
None.

### <p id="ProcessDescriptor">ProcessDescriptor class</p>
Describes a group of processes that have been launched during the build with the same executable.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**PipsThatExecute TheProcess** | IReadOnlyDictionary&#60;[PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor), IReadOnlyCollection&#60;[ProcessInstanceDescriptor](#ProcessInstanceDescriptor)&#62;&#62; | Dictionary that links pips that ran the given executable to actual process instances.
**ProcessExecutable** | string | The name with full path of the executable used to launch the process.

#### Methods:
None.

### <p id="ProcessInstanceDescriptor">ProcessInstanceDescriptor class</p>
Describes a single process that ran as part of the build.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**ProcessArgs** | string | The command line arguments of the process (it also includes the process executable as argument 0).
**ProcessExecutable** | string | The process executable.
**ProcessId** | uint | The process Id of the process.
**IO** | [IOCounters](#IOCounters) | Counters for aggregate IO transfer for process. 
**UserTime** | TimeSpan | Amount of time process spent executing user-mode code.
**KernelTime** | TimeSpan | Amount of time process spent executing user-mode code.
**CreationTime** | DateTime | The UTC time at which the process started.
**ExitTime** | DateTime | The UTC time at which the process exited.
**ExitCode** | uint | The exit code set by the process, or 0xFFFFFFFF when the exit code cannot be captured.
**ParentProcessId** | uint | The process Id of current processe's parent process.

Note that IO, UserTime and KernelTime values will be zero if BuildXL is not instructed to collect them. See [Generating Execution Logs](#GenerateBuildXLExecutionLogs) for more information.

#### Methods:
None.

### <p id="ReportedFileAccessDescriptor">ReportedFileAccessDescriptor class</p>
Describes a file access reported by BuildXL during the build. Maps individual reported file accesses to the pip that launched the process that has acessed the file.

#### Properties:

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**Pip** | [PipDescriptor](#PipDescriptor) | The pip that performed the file access.
**ReportedFileAccess** | [ReportedFileAccess](#ReportedFileAccess) | Data structure that describes the reported file access.

#### Methods:
None.

The following section documents some of the internal types of the  BuildXL build engine that are being exposed and referenced by the SDK. Only the type members that are applicable to the SDK will be documented here.

## BuildXL.Scheduler.Graph namespace
### <p id="NodeId">NodeId structure</p>
Identifies a unique Node within the build graph.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**Value** | uint | Identifier of this the node in the build graph. Higher values correspond to nodes added later to the graph. These values are guaranteed to be dense.

## BuildXL.Pips namespace
### <p id="FileMonitoringViolationCounters">FileMonitoringViolationCounters class</p>

Counters for the classification of file monitoring violations encountered during process execution.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**HasUncacheableFileAccesses** | bool | Indicates if this context has reported accesses which should mark the owning process as cache-ineligible.
**NumFileAccessViolationsNotWhitelisted** | int | Count of accesses such that the access was not whitelisted at all, and should be reported as a violation.
**NumFileAccessesWhitelistedAndCacheable** | int | Count of accesses such that the access was whitelisted, via the cache-friendly part of the whitelist. The pip may be cached.
**NumFileAccessesWhitelistedButNotCacheable** | int | Count of accesses such that the access was whitelisted, but was not in the cache-friendly part of the whitelist. The pip should not be cached.
**Total** | int | The number of all file monitoring violations.
**TotalWhitelisted** | int | Total violations whitelisted. This is the sum of cacheable and non-cacheable violations.

### <p id="IOCounters">IOCounters class</p>
Contains I/O accounting information for a process or process tree.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**ReadCounters** | [IOTypeCounters](#IOTypeCounters) | Counters for read operations.
**WriteCounters** | [IOTypeCounters](#IOTypeCounters) | Counters for write operations.
**TransferCount** | [IOTypeCounters](#IOTypeCounters) | Counters for other operations (not classified as either read or write).

### <p id="IOTypeCounters">IOTypeCounters class</p>
Contains I/O accounting information for a process or process tree for a particular type of IO (e.g. read or write). 

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**OperationCount** | ulong | Number of operations performed (independent of size).
**TransferCount** | ulong | Total bytes transferred (regardless of the number of operations used to transfer them).

### <p id="PipExecutionLevel">PipExecutionLevel enumeration</p>
Indicates the manner in which a pip executed.

Name | Description
 --- | ---
**Cached** | The pip was cached, and some work was performed to deploy it from cache.
**Executed** | The pip's full work was performed.
**Failed** | The pip failed.
**UpToDate** | The pip was fully up to date.

### <p id="ProcessPipExecutionPerformance">ProcessPipExecutionPerformance class</p>
Contains pip run performance information.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**ExecutionLevel** | [PipExecutionLevel](#PipExecutionLevel) | Indicates the manner in which a pip executed.
**ExecutionStart** | DateTime | Start time in UTC.
**ExecutionStop** | DateTime | Stop time in UTC.
**ProcessExecutionTime** | TimeSpan | Time spent executing the entry-point process (possibly zero, such as if this execution was cached).
**IO** | [IOCounters](#IOCounters) | Counters for aggregate IO transfer for the entire process tree.
**UserTime** | TimeSpan | User-mode execution time. Note that this counter increases as threads in the process tree execute (it is not equivalent to wall clock time).
**KernelTime** | TimeSpan | Kernel-mode execution time. Note that this counter increases as threads in the process tree execute (it is not equivalent to wall clock time).
**PeakMemoryUsage** | ulong | Peak memory usage considering all processes (highest point-in-time sum of the memory usage of the process tree).
**NumberOfProcesses** | uint | Number of processes that executed as part of the pip (the entry-point process may start children).
**FileMonitoringViolations** | [FileMonitoringViolationCounters](#FileMonitoringViolationCounters) | Counters for the classification of file monitoring violations encountered during process execution.
**Fingerprint** | Fingerprint | Fingerprint identity as used for cache lookup.
**CacheDescriptorId** | ulong? | Unique ID of the cache descriptor (if one was stored or retrieved from cache).


## BuildXL.Pips.Operations namespace
### <p id="PipType">PipType enumeration</p>
Enumeration representing the types of pips.

Name | Description
 --- | --- 
**None** | Represents a Process pip. The Execution log SDK only loads process pips, therefore this is the only enumeration value that will ever be used.

## BuildXL.Processes namespace
### <p id="CreationDisposition">CreationDisposition enumeration</p>
Enumerates possible actions to take when creating a file or device.

Name | Value | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**CREATE\_NEW** | 1 | Creates a new file, only if it does not already exist.
**CREATE\_ALWAYS** | 2 | Creates a new file, always.
**OPEN\_EXISTING** | 3 | Opens a file or device, only if it exists.
**OPEN\_ALWAYS** | 4 | Opens a file, always.
**TRUNCATE\_EXSTING** | 5 | Opens a file and truncates it so that its size is zero bytes, only if it exists.

### <p id="DesiredAccess">DesiredAccess enumeration</p>
Enumerates possible access types to files or devices.

Name | Value | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**FILE\_WRITE\_DATA** | 0x00000002 | For a file object, the right to write data to the file. For a directory object, the right to create a file in the directory (FILE\_ADD\_FILE).
**FILE\_APPEND\_DATA** | 0x00000004 | Right to append data to the file.
**FILE\_WRITE\_EA** | 0x00000010 | The right to write extended file attributes.
**FILE\_WRITE\_ATTRIBUTES** | 0x00000100 | The right to write file attributes.
**DELETE** | 0x00010000 | Right to delete an object.
**SYNCHRONIZE** | 0x00100000 | Right to wait on a handle.
**GENERIC\_ALL** | 0x10000000 | All possible access rights.
**GENERIC\_EXECUTE** | 0x20000000 | Execute access.
**GENERIC\_WRITE** | 0x40000000 | Write access.
**GENERIC\_READ** | 0x80000000 | Read access.

### <p id="FileAccessStatus">FileAccessStatus enumeration</p>
Indicates the status of a file access operation.

Name | Value | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**None** | 0 | Unknown status.
**Allowed** | 1 | File access was allowed according to manifest.
**Denied** | 2 | EFile access was denied according to manifest.
**CannotDeterminePolicy** | 3 | File access policy couldn't be determined as path couldn't be canonicalized.

### <p id="FlagsAndAttributes">FlagsAndAttributes enumeration</p>
Represents various file or device attributes and flags.

Name | Value | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_READONLY** | 0x00000001 | The file is read only. Applications can read the file, but cannot write to or delete it.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_HIDDEN** | 0x00000002 | The file is hidden. Do not include it in an ordinary directory listing.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_SYSTEM** | 0x00000004 | The file is part of or used exclusively by an operating system.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_ARCHIVE** | 0x00000020 | The file should be archived. Applications use this attribute to mark files for backup or removal.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_NORMAL** | 0x00000080 | The file does not have other attributes set. This attribute is valid only if used alone.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_TEMPORARY** | 0x00000100 | The file is being used for temporary storage.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_OFFLINE** | 0x00001000 | The data of a file is not immediately available. This attribute indicates that file data is physically moved to offline storage.
**FILE\_ATTRIBUTE\_ENCRYPED** | 0x00004000 | The file or directory is encrypted.
**FILE\_FLAG\_OPEN\_NO\_RECALL** | 0x00100000 | The file data is requested, but it should continue to be located in remote storage.
**FILE\_FLAG\_OPEN\_REPARSE\_POINT** | 0x00200000 | Normal reparse point processing will not occur; CreateFile will attempt to open the reparse point.
**FILE\_FLAG\_SESSION\_AWARE** | 0x00800000 | The file or device is being opened with session awareness.
**FILE\_FLAG\_POSIX\_SEMANTICS** | 0x01000000 | Access will occur according to POSIX rules.
**FILE\_FLAG\_BACKUP\_SEMANTICS** | 0x02000000 | The file is being opened or created for a backup or restore operation.
**FILE\_FLAG\_DELETE\_ON\_CLOSE** | 0x04000000 | The file is to be deleted immediately after all of its handles are closed, which includes the specified handle and any other open or duplicated handles.
**FILE\_FLAG\_SEQUENTIAL\_SCAN** | 0x08000000 | Access is intended to be sequential from beginning to end.
**FILE\_FLAG\_RANDOM\_ACCESS** | 0x10000000 | Access is intended to be random.
**FILE\_FLAG\_NO\_BUFFERING** | 0x20000000 | The file or device is being opened with no system caching for data reads and writes.
**FILE\_FLAG\_OVERLAPPED** | 0x40000000 | The file or device is being opened or created for asynchronous I/O.
**FILE\_FLAG\_WRITE\_THROUGH** | 0x80000000 | Write operations will not go through any intermediate cache, they will go directly to disk.

### <p id="ReportedProcess">ReportedProcess class</p>
Contains information about an instance of a process that ran during th build.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**Path** | string | The path of the executable file of the process.
**ProcessArgs** | string | The (not necessarily unique) process id
**ProcessId** | uint | The command line arguments of  the process

### <p id="ReportedFileAccess">ReportedFileAccess class</p>
Contains information about attempted file access that was reported by BuildXL during the build.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**CreationDisposition** | [CreationDisposition](#CreationDisposition) | An action to take on a file or device that exists or does not exist.
**DesiredAccess** | [DesiredAccess](#DesiredAccess) | The requested access to the file or device
**Error** | uint | Last-error code.
**ExplicitlyReported** | bool | If true, the file access was marked for explicit reporting, possibly in a containing scope.
**FlagsAndAttributes** | [FlagsAndAttributes](#FlagsAndAttributes) | The file or device attributes and flags.
**Operation** | ReportedFileOperation | The file operation that caused the reported file access.
**Path** | string | Full path that was accessed.
**Process** | [ReportedProcess](#ReportedProcess) | The process which caused the reported file access.
**RequestedAccess** | [RequestedAccess](#RequestedAccess) | Level of access requested by this file operation (e.g. CreateFile can request read, write or both).
**ShareMode** | [ShareMode](#ShareMode) | The requested sharing mode of the file or device.
**Status** | [FileAccessStatus](#FileAccessStatus) | Whether the file access was allowed or denied.
**Usn** | [Usn](#Usn) | USN number. Note that 0 is the default USN number (e.g. when no journal is present), and the NoUsn value indicates the absence of a USN number.

### <p id="RequestedAccess">RequestedAccess enumeration</p>
Level of access requested by a file operation (e.g. CreateFile can request read, write or both).

Name | Value | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**None** | 0 | No access requested.
**Read** | 1 | Read access requested.
**Write** | 2 | Write access requested.
**Probe** | 4 | Metadata-only probe access requested (e.g. GetFileAttributes).
**Enumerate** | 8 | Directory enumeration access requested (on the directory itself; immediate children will be enumerated).
**EnumerationProbe** | 16 | Metadata-only probe access requested; probed as part of a directory enumeration (e.g. FindNextFile).
**ReadWrite** | Read &#124; Write | Both read and write access requested.
**All** | Read &#124; Write &#124; Probe &#124; Enumerate &#124; EnumerationProbe | All defined access levels requested.

### <p id="ShareMode">ShareMode enumeration</p>
The requested sharing mode of the file or device.

Name | Value | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**FILE\_SHARE\_NONE** | 0 | Prevents other processes from opening a file or device if they request delete, read, or write access.
**FILE\_SHARE\_READ** | 1 | Enables subsequent open operations on a file or device to request read access.
**FILE\_SHARE\_WRITE** | 2 | Enables subsequent open operations on a file or device to request write access.
**FILE\_SHARE\_DELETE** | 4 | Enables subsequent open operations on a file or device to request delete access.

## BuildXL.Scheduler namespace
### <p id="FingerprintComputationKind">FingerprintComputationKind enumeration</p>
Describes the type of the pip fingerprint computation result.

Name | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**Execution** | Indicates the fingerprint was computed as a part of post execution caching.
**CacheCheck** | Indicates the fingerprint was computed to check whether pip could be run from cache.

### <p id="ObservedInput">ObservedInput structure</p>
Represents an observed input that is associated with a strong fingerprint computation.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**DirectoryEnumeration** | bool | Gets whether the path refers to a directory enumeration.
**Hash** | ContentHash | Specifies the content hash of the observed input.
**IsDirectoryPath** | bool | Gets whether the path is a directory.
**IsSearchPath** | bool | Gets whether the path was a directory search path.
**Path** | AbsolutePath | The computed hash of the path set. Use the [ExecutionLog::AbsolutePathToPathString](#AbsolutePathToPathString) method to convert the AbsolutePath to a string.
**Type** | [ObservedInputType](#ObservedInputType) | Specifies the type of the observed input.

### <p id="ObservedInputType">ObservedInputType enumeration</p>
Describes the type of an observed input.

Name | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**AbsentPathProbe** | Indicates that a path was probed, but did not exist.
**DirectoryEnumeration** | Indicates that a directory was enumerated (kind of like a directory read).
**ExistingDirectoryProbe** | Indicates that an existing directory was probed.
**FileContentRead** | Indicates that a file with known contents was read.

### <p id="ProcessStrongFingerprintComputationData">ProcessStrongFingerprintComputationData structure</p>
Describes the the pip fingerprint computation result.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**ComputedStrongFingerprint** | StrongContentFingerprint | The computed strong fingerprint.
**IsHit** | bool | Gets whether the strong fingerprint matched the expected strong fingerprint.
**ObservedInputs** | ReadOnlyArray&#60;[ObservedInput](#ObservedInput)&#62; | Observed inputs that were captured during the validation of the strong fingerprint path sets.
**PathSet** | ReadOnlyArray&#60;[ObservedPathEntry](#ObservedPathEntry)&#62; | Observed path set associated with the strong fingerprint computation.
**PathSetHash** | ContentHash | The computed hash of the path set.
**PriorStrongFingerprints** | IReadOnlyList&#60;StrongContentFingerprint&#62; | The strong fingerprint computed for the path set from the prior build.
**Succeeded** | bool | Gets whether the strong fingerprint computation succeeded (note there might still be a cache miss).

### <p id="ObservedPathEntry">ObservedPathEntry structure</p>
Represents a path in a pathset that is associated with a strong fingerprint computation.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**DirectoryEnumeration** | bool | Gets whether the path refers to a directory enumeration.
**IsDirectoryPath** | bool | Gets whether the ath is a directory.
**IsSearchPath** | bool | Gets whether the path was a directory search path.
**Path** | AbsolutePath | The computed hash of the path set. Use the [ExecutionLog::AbsolutePathToPathString](#AbsolutePathToPathString) method to convert the AbsolutePath to a string.

## BuildXL.Storage namespace
### <p id="Usn">USN enumeration</p>
Represents a cursor into a filesystem change journal.

Name | Type | Description
 --- | --- | ---
**Value** | ulong | Journal offset. These values are totally ordered within a volume.
