Failed to materialize pip dependencies from cache - aka Cache Target Miss in Setup (CTMIS)

When performing distributed builds you may encounter errors like this:
```error DX2702: [PipB3B1430C123179A9, build.cmd, MsWin.OnecoreUAP.MinKernel, Minkernel.Crts.Crtw32.Convert.Ntdll.pass1, {configuration:"release", platform:"x86"}] Failed to materialize pip dependencies content from cache: Failed files [see warning log for details]:
d:\dbs\el\esi\obj\x86fre\build_logs\Pips\MsWin.OnecoreUAP.MinKernel.Minkernel.Busdrv.Acpi.Driver.Nt\pass0_build.log | Hash=VSO0:EB0827A7CE19E9930C24D80FE3713D15712A3DC1B57DB5EB970B4822A3FA8EE900
```

This is essentially the cache getting into an inconsistent state during the build session. Basically one machine performs a cache lookup and determines that pipA is a cache hit. Then another machine gets a cache miss on pipB which consumes the output of pipA. It is now necessary for that machine to fetch the outputs of pipA to satisfy pipB’s dependencies and execute it. But it is now realized that those output files don’t exist. This is Cache Target Miss in Setup (CTMIS) in a nutshell.

**Why didn’t BuildXL realize the outputs were missing when determining pipA was a cache hit?** 
To be positive outputs are available, BuildXL really needs to download them to the machine performing the lookup. Generally this is quite wasteful since BuildXL optimizes for downstream pips also be cache hits. And downstream misses may not run on the same machine. Instead there’s a probabilistic model for how likely the content is to exist. When the probability is low, it is fetched. When high, upfront fetching is omitted. This is still an area that’s under active development which is why BuildXL got it wrong.

**Why not just rerun the pipA when pipB realizes it cannot materialize the cached outputs?** 
This gets into concerns about determinism and “frankenbuilds”, which is defined as a build that used to different versions of a pip's output from different invocations in downstream pips. In the example, pipB may realize that one of pipA's output files isn't available, but pipC may have already have consumed a different output which was available. Allowing the build to continue with pipC using version 1 of an output, and then rerunning pipA to satisfy pipB's dependencies can mean multiple versions of the same output file are used in the same build. This wouldn't be a problem if all pips in a build were deterministic, but that is rarely the case. As such BuildXL assumes tools are non-deterministic and does not allow this scenario.
