This message is for a ContractFail. Contracts are validations that exist in core DScript classes and can also be placed in your build logic. This DX code is overloaded with multiple possible sub-meanings depending on the nature of the broken contract check. See sections below with some common patterns.

Notice the provenance before the DX code includes the location of the contract that failed. It may be helpful to open and investigate the build logic in that file.

## For patterns with 'Error trying to deploy both... to the same location' ==
Example:
```
    \Out\bin\sdk\Deployment\operations.dsc(104,13): error DX7501: Error trying to deploy both file 'fB:/Packages/.pkgs/vpacks/Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.3.13.1/Lib/net45/Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.dll' and file 'fB:/Packages/.pkgs/vpacks/Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.3.13.5/Lib/net45/Microsoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.dll' to the same location: 'rMicrosoft.IdentityModel.Clients.ActiveDirectory.dll' 
```
This contract failure arises from use of deployment commands in DScript that seek to deploy different versions (content hashes) of the same file to the same output directory. Deployment DScript tags implement this contract test to ensure your build outputs are deterministic - in a specific output path you should have exactly one version of a file.

Possible mitigations:
* If you are integrating different packages (e.g. NuGet packages) containing a "diamond dependency" to common utilities like .NET SDK, Bond, Newtonsoft.Json, or other .NET assemblies, ensure the NuGet packages contain dependency package references to the dependencies and do not include the dependency's assembly file in the .nupkg file. E.g. if the package has a dependency on Newtonsoft.Json, add that dependency into the package's dependencies list, and update your .nuspec to avoid including Newtonsoft.Json.dll in the package.
* If you have no control over the upstream package, you should change from importing the 'pkg' object from the auto-generated package.dsc created by BuildXL, to instead reference only the one or two top-level assemblies you need to get your code to build. For example, for a package 'Foo' containing 'Foo.dll' and 'Newtonsoft.Json.dll' listed in the package.dsc, change from this failing call in your project .dsc:
```
 managedNuGetReferences: [
   importFrom("Foo").pkg,
 ],
```
To:
```
 references: [
   importFrom("Foo").Foo.assembly,
 ],
```